Now this is all taking shape,
it's now time to add some logic and with logic, I mean write some code that does something when either
of these buttons is clicked.
Now of course later, we'll do this with the help of Angular in this course
but as I mentioned multiple times, you don't need to do that with Angular,
this here will work with vanilla Javascript as well because we're just throwing a couple of web components
into our app,
we can interact with them just as we can do with normal HTML elements and that by the way of course
is also the reason why you can use Ionic for and later versions with Angular, with Vue, with Raect, with
whichever framework you want.
Now let's add an app.js file here and you can name the file however you want of course and let's import
that file at the end of our HTML file right before the closing body tag, here with a script import, script
source app.js, so that this will now execute when this file is parsed and in here,
I want to get access to my inputs to reads the values in them and I want to get access to my buttons
to add click listeners to them
and of course, I also want to output some data we entered below this card,
so here or actually outside of this column and row.
So first of all to get access to the inputs and the button, I will add IDs to them.
You could add CSS classes or use the tag selectors, though since we have multiple ion-inputs using
the tag selector to get access to them would work but would be a bit more tricky.
So here I'll just give this a reason or an input reason ID, this here we'll get an ID of input amount
and for the buttons here, this first button will get an ID of button cancel and the second button down
there,
this one, will get an ID of button confirm. Now obviously you can use any ID names you want,
this is not an Ionic feature,
these are regular HTML IDs. With these IDs assigned, let's go into app.js and store references
to these elements in some constants, like the reason input here. We can get access to it by using document
query selector and then hashtag to use the ID selector, input reason and of course this here, this
text here, this name here should match the ID name you assigned here,
input reason. Next we'll get access to input amount and for that,
let me just duplicate this line here, name this amount input and get access to input amount.
So these are the two inputs, of course I also want to get access to my buttons, so I'll have my cancel
button which I get access to with document query selector and then hashtag button cancel was the
ID I assigned and last but not least, the confirm button with document query selector hashtag button
confirm. So now, access to all these elements is or not access, references to all these elements are stored.
In this vanilla Javascript code I'm writing here, I can now of course add my listeners to the confirm
button for example. We can add an event listener to the click event and then this function here will
get executed once we click on the button and for now, we can just console log it works to check
whether it works.
So let me open the Javascript console here on the right, reload and click add expense and you should
see it works now if you wired this all up correctly. Now that is perfect, as a next step, let's make sure we
actually read the values we store in here and that we then are able to validate them and output
them
below our card here.